In this and the next several videos, you are going to learn how to display and work with and filter
text information.
Obviously this is a course on language modeling, so we are going to be working a lot with text data.
So let's begin.
I'm actually going to begin with something you already know how to do.
So let's say I'm just going to create a number equals sign there and a string I'll use S and g here.
And let's call this cellar doors.
Uh maybe correct spelling in here okay.
Like that cellar doors.
And we have a string of 45.3.
Okay.
So if I want to print out some mixed information and let's say I would like to have, uh, str num space
plus s g.
Okay.
So this you already know how to do.
I'm missing a plus sign over here.
Hear this.
You already know how to do.
I would like to have 45.3 cellar doors for whatever reason.
Here we are concatenating using the plus sign.
Here is a number, but I have to convert it into a string to get it to work to get it to display.
This variable is already a string, so I still need the plus sign.
Here I have a space.
Okay, so this is kind of clunky.
It's really easy to make mistakes.
As you saw I just made a mistake okay.
So the idea is to use two different methods in or syntax approaches in Python to make this same output,
but get it to be easier to write out.
So the first method that I will show you is called string interpolation.
And what I'm going to do here is write.
I would like to have.
And then this is going to look strange at first, but I will explain it in a moment.
So percent g percent s and then a percent sign and then num comma s and g.
So this runs.
It gives us the exact same output that we have over here.
But you can see it's a lot cleaner right.
The whole code just looks a lot nicer.
We don't need all these plus signs.
We don't have to worry about extra spaces and so on.
Okay, so the idea is that when we write this string here and then we have a percent and then a certain
key letter either G or S, there's a couple of other options, but mostly you'll be using G and s.
And then we have another percent sign with a tuple out here after the quote ends.
So the idea is that we have two pieces of information that we want to fill in or substitute.
Python calls it interpolate.
I think it would be better if we call this method substitution.
But anyway, It doesn't matter.
And then there are two elements over here.
Two variables.
So this one gets mapped onto this, and this one gets replaced with whatever is in here.
And what is the g and the s for.
So the g is for a number and the s is for a string.
So if I would write g g.
Now I get an error message because Python is expecting to replace this with a number.
But actually this is of type string.
Okay.
So that needs to be a G.
Now what do you think is going to happen if I replace this with an S.
It turns out that that works.
So sometimes it's a little bit more flexible.
Okay.
And then yeah you can also do math inside here.
So this is for string interpolation.
Uh sometimes depending on the application I use string interpolation uh, when I'm coding it with mixing
in Python and strings and SymPy and latex coating.
Then I use string interpolation a lot.
Most of the time, but in this course I'm mostly going to be using what's called f strings.
F strings are even more flexible to work with and display information compared to string interpolation,
and f strings work most of the time.
There are situations where you are mixing LaTeX with Python code, and then f strings can be really
a major headache.
So then it's better to use string interpolation, but I don't.
You don't need to worry about that for this course.
For this course, I just want you to know about string interpolation.
But mostly we're going to be using f strings.
Okay.
So how does f strings work.
Now I'm going to print I would like to have and then curly brackets num and then another curly bracket
S and G.
Okay.
Oops.
So actually, this is pretty interesting.
This is a mistake on my part, but this is a nice teaching moment.
So here I have curly brackets.
So notice they're curly brackets.
They're not parentheses and they are not square brackets.
So curly brackets.
And then the variable name inside.
Now if I just print out this message the way I have it written here, Python literally interprets all
of this text.
What we need to do to make this be an f string is include an f, and you put the f immediately before
the quote over here, so f and then immediately a quote with no spaces.
And now you can also see that these colors have changed.
So notice now I remove the f and we have all of the text is this kind of reddish color.
And now when I include the f then the brackets turn green.
And the variable names turn black.
Okay.
And now we get the result that I was looking for which matches what we have up here.
Next example of f strings.
Let's do something in a for loop.
So for I in range nine to how about 18.
Let's do something like this.
And now I will write print.
Uh I is a number and I to the power of four is a bigger number.
That is a factually true statement.
Okay.
So here I see nine is a number.
And yeah these are bigger numbers.
Now what if I wanted to do let's say I divided by three.
So it's I three to the power of four.
Now this is all accurate but it's starting to look ugly right.
Because look how the spacing gets mixed up here.
So in particular this has a lot of numbers after the decimal point, and this only has few numbers or
one number after the decimal point.
So what we can do very easily with f strings is control the formatting of the output.
In fact, that's what the F stands for.
It stands for formatting okay.
So to control this I'm going to use a colon after the calculation.
Right.
So the colon comes after the number.
It doesn't come before it doesn't come in the middle it goes after.
And now I'm going to write decimal two f point two f.
And now notice that every single number here has exactly two decimal points or two numbers after the
decimal point.
And if I do this with five, then we get five.
If I do it with zero, then I get zero.
Okay.
So let's set this back to two.
And now that's fine.
We see there's a little still a little bit of a shift here.
And that actually happens Bins over here because all of the numbers after nine have two digits, but
the number nine only has one digit.
So I'm going to write colon two.
And now there's no period in here because I don't you know I can also include a period oops needs an
F in there.
I can also include a period.
But these are integers so I don't care about that okay.
So the two here needs to be like this.
The two here is specifying the formatting that I want to have two characters for this information to
be displayed.
So for example, if I would make this four.
Now you can see there's some extra spaces in the beginning.
There's some trailing spaces.
This could be useful if we're counting up into the hundreds or into the thousands.
Okay, so I will set this back to two and let's see what else we have.
Okay.
We have a similar problem over here.
So this bothers me I don't think it looks very nice.
So what I want to do is have.
Let's see.
Well, we're going up to the thousands, so that means four over here.
So here I will write 4.2.
And.
Huh.
It still doesn't work.
What do you think the problem is?
The problem here is that four is actually fewer numbers than we already need to represent these numbers.
So here I have 123 including the decimal .45.
So this already has five.
So let's do uh how about six okay.
So if I say uh minimum six spaces then that looks good for this number which is less than 100, but
it's still misaligned with the thousands because here we have seven.
Right.
So you can see there's four numbers over here two numbers over here.
And then the decimal point.
So that makes seven.